Async controller impl (#56)
ros-controls/roadmap: design_drafts/async_controller_impl.md

## Implementation of Asynchronous Controllers

#### Short description

Asynchronous controllers are an upcoming addition to the ros2_control framework. As the name suggests, they make it possible to run the update calls of these controllers on a separate thread. Asynchronous components are omitted here for the sake of clarity, but they follow a very similar structure.

> Since the intention was to support real-time systems, the standard library's std::atomic interface was used, and due to the inherent difficulty of writing and understanding concurrent lock-free programs, a brief glance at the code might not be enough to figure out if something doesn't work as intended.

Author: Removed the unimportant parts

For that reason, the purpose of this design draft is to explain how the synchronization works between the Controller Manager's thread and an asynchronous controllers, now to make it easier for others to review the PR of the feature, and later to let the users know if the current implementation is suitable for their use case.

#### Implementation

> The controllers running asynchronously are entirely independent of each other, which means that no data sharing occurs between them. Therefore synchronization happens between the Controller Manager's thread and an async controller - so in the following drawings only these two threads will be visualized.

Author: Here I wanted to say that since each asynchronous controller has its own instance of atomic flags to signal if their update has finished, even if you have 8 async controllers, it's enough to visualize only the controller manager's thread and only a single controller thread to show how synchronization is implemented. Because the controllers don't share data with each other, no synchronization happens between the controllers at all. The CM thread, in turn, communicates with all controller threads, but only with one at a time. In the code it's just a for loop which checks each controller thread's flags in order.

I'm not sure if it's more clear now, but in the evening I'll think about how to reword this paragraph.

> The critical sections are:

Author: Done

> * The state interface writes of the Controller Manager's read function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The state interface reads of the Controller Manager's read function
```

Reviewer: or rather this one?

```suggestion
* The state interface writes from the Controller Manager's read function
```

Author: I think the second one's better here.

* The command interface writes of the async controller's update function

> The former has to occur and be seen by the async thread before the update, while the latter, ideally, has to finish and be seen before the controller manager's write.

Reviewer: Can you mark this in a specific color in the figure? It is not directly clear what part of the figure you are explaining.

![async_controller](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25421074/212979058-5dad88c1-d940-4bc7-ac6f-103711de7210.png)

> As shown in the above image, there are four different cases to account for, and these are: 

Reviewer: Can you also visually show those cases? With small circles in different colors similarly?

```suggestion
The above diagram shows four different concurrency cases to account for:
```

Author: Definitely! I'll have to think about how the diagram could be changed, since just adding stuff might further obfuscate it.

> 1. The state interfaces aren't written yet by the cm read. In this case, we can be sure that the release flag isn't set, thus the acquire load on the other side will return false - so we'll skip the update and the asynchronous controller will sleep until the next iteration. This works as intended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The state interfaces aren't written yet by the CM read. In this case, we can be sure that the release flag isn't set, thus the acquire load on the other side will return false - so we'll skip the update and the asynchronous controller will sleep until the next iteration.
```

> 2. The state interfaces are written in the cm read function, and the release flag is set. It can happen that the state interfaces are visible on the controller's side, but the flag isn't - in this case, we'll do the same as the first scenario. On the other hand, if the flag is set, then the thread's acquire load will return true if it isn't currently sleeping, and the respective orderings guarantee that the async update will be able to work with the latest state interface values. This is fine too.

Reviewer: I am uncertain if I understand who is releasing and how is acquiring stuff in this case. This general explanation would be good.

Reviewer: Not sure I understand the second sentence

Author: I've created a easy to understand C++ example with some explanations.

3. After async update, a release store is made to signal that the command interfaces are written. Again, the release ordering guarantees that if the store is visible on the other thread, then so are the command interfaces. If the acquire load of this variable is true right before the cm write function, then we're again working with the latest values, which is the intended outcome.

> 4. If the flag isn't visible, and the load return false, it means that the asynchronous update isn't finished before the next write. This is not ideal, since it means that two threads might access the same variable in the same time, leading to a potential data race. Currently, if this happens, only a warning is given to the user, and we continue with the write function as if nothing happened. In practice, probably nothing dangerous will happen, since the aligned loads and stores of plain pointers (similarly to ints and bools) are atomic on most CPUs, and this can only occur if the async update is slower than all synchronous updates combined, but even then, this is an issue and should be handled differently.

Reviewer: Which "load" are you talking about?

Reviewer: "data race" --> "race condition"

Reviewer: Not sure I understand this issue, sorry.

Author: Yes, this was not very clear. Added which load I was actually referring to
